# GazOntology

This tool is designed to create GATE Gazetteer lists from ontology terms and their synonyms. 

## Usage

GazOntology is distributed as a jar file which may be run with Java 1.8 or above. 
In its most basic usage you may provide an ontology file with the -f argument and 
a GATE gazetteer list generated from term labels and exact synonyms will be printed to the screen. 
Use the -o option to write to an output file.

Inexact synonyms may also be included if the ontology supports them by using the -b and -r options. 

A gazetteer list for a subhierarchy of the ontology may be generated by providing the top term, useful
in cases where an ontology covers many distinct areas of interest.

The ontology identifier is used so that the gazetteer list only contains items with this
prefix. If none is given, it will be guessed from the filename. 

```
$ java -jar OntoGaz.jar 
usage: GazOntology
 -b                        include broad (inexact) synonyms
 -d                        direct subclasses only
 -f,--ontologyFile <arg>   ontology file to process
 -id,--ontologyID <arg>    ontology identifier (e.g., iao)
 -o,--output <arg>         output file
 -r                        include related (inexact) synonyms
 -top,--topTerm <arg>      top term to include
```

## Ongoing Development

This tool has been built for our specific use cases but may not completely match your own. 
Please submit a bug report if you would like to see a feature that is missing added!

## Citing this work

If you make use of this tool in academic work, please cite it as follows: 

Schlegel, D.R., Fontana, R., and Naaktgeboren, A. 
[GazOntology: A Tool for Building GATE Gazetteer Lists from Ontologies (short paper)](https://danielschlegel.org/wp/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/ont-gaz.pdf). 
1st International Workshop on Biomedical Ontologies & Natural Language Processing, July 2019, 2 pages.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Library Of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number R15LM013030. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health.
